Rust formations (#760)
kgateway-dev/kgateway.dev: assets/docs/pages/operations/strict-validation.md

{{< reuse "docs/snippets/kgateway-capital.md" >}} supports two validation modes for routes and policies in the control plane: `standard` and `strict`. The validation mode controls how the control plane handles invalid configuration before it is sent to Envoy.

## Validation modes

{{< reuse "docs/snippets/kgateway-capital.md" >}} supports the following validation modes. The mode is set globally on the controller through a single Helm value.

| Mode | Behavior |
| --- | --- |
| `standard` (default) | The control plane translates all valid resources and replaces invalid routes with a direct response (typically `HTTP 500`). Valid routes that are unrelated to the invalid resource are unaffected. This mode protects multi-tenant clusters from individual misconfiguration without dropping the entire snapshot. |

> | `strict` | In addition to the `standard` behavior, the control plane runs an Envoy preflight validation against the generated xDS snapshot. If Envoy would reject the snapshot, the entire snapshot is blocked and the previous good config remains in place. This mode prevents misconfigurations that would otherwise cause Envoy to NACK an xDS update from reaching the data plane. |

Reviewer: tbh maybe this is too stuffy, ignore if you want

```suggestion
| `strict` | In addition to the `standard` behavior, the control plane runs an Envoy preflight validation against the generated xDS snapshot. If Envoy would reject the snapshot, the entire snapshot is blocked and the previous valid configuration remains in place. This mode prevents misconfigurations that would otherwise cause Envoy to NACK an xDS update from reaching the data plane. |
```

> `standard` mode is the default and is appropriate for most production environments. `strict` mode is recommended when you cannot tolerate a NACKed xDS update reaching the data plane, for example because you have downstream automation that depends on every accepted change being safe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`standard` mode is the default and is appropriate for most production environments. `strict` mode is recommended when you cannot tolerate a NACKed xDS update reaching the data plane; for example, you might have downstream automation that depends on every accepted change being safe.
```

## Enable strict validation

Set the `validation.level` Helm value to `strict` when you install or upgrade kgateway. Restart the control plane to apply the change.

```yaml
validation:
  level: strict
```

Internally, the Helm chart passes the value to the control plane through the `KGW_VALIDATION_MODE` environment variable. If you manage the control plane deployment manually, set `KGW_VALIDATION_MODE=STRICT` on the kgateway container.

The accepted values for `validation.level` are `standard` and `strict` (case-insensitive). Any other value causes the Helm install to fail.

## Verify the validation mode

> To check which mode is active, inspect the `KGW_VALIDATION_MODE` env var on the kgateway controller deployment. The expected output is `standard` or `strict`.

Reviewer: same thing - maybe this is too stuffy, ignore if you want
```suggestion
To check which mode is active, inspect the `KGW_VALIDATION_MODE` environment variable on the kgateway controller deployment. The expected output is `standard` or `strict`.
```
